application_security: update serverless page (#31774)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/application_security/setup/aws/lambda/go.md

---
title: Enabling App and API Protection for AWS Lambda functions in Go
further_reading:
    - link: "/security/application_security/how-it-works/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "How App and API Protection Works"
    - link: "/security/default_rules/?category=cat-application-security"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "OOTB App and API Protection Rules"
    - link: "/security/application_security/troubleshooting"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "Troubleshooting App and API Protection"
    - link: "/security/application_security/threats/"
      tag: "Documentation"
      text: "App and API Protection"
    - link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-security-google-cloud/"
      tag: "Blog"
      text: "Datadog Security extends compliance and threat protection capabilities for Google Cloud"
---

> Configuring App and API Protection (AAP) for AWS Lambda involves:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configuring App and API Protection for AWS Lambda involves:
```

1. Identifying functions that are vulnerable or are under attack, which would most benefit from AAP. Find them on [the Security tab of your Software Catalog][1].
2. Setting up AAP instrumentation by using either the [Datadog CLI](https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/serverless_integrations/cli), [AWS CDK](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-cdk-constructs), [Datadog Serverless Framework plugin][2], or manually by using the Datadog tracing layers.
3. Triggering security signals in your application and seeing how Datadog displays the resulting information.

## Prerequisites

- [Serverless APM Tracing][apm-lambda-tracing-setup] is setup on the Lambda function to send traces directly to Datadog.
  X-Ray tracing, by itself, is not sufficient for AAP and requires APM Tracing to be enabled.

## Compatibility

**Note**: Threat Protection through Remote Configuration is not supported. Use [Workflows][3] to block IPs in your [WAF][4].

> The Datadog Go tracer is distributed as a Go module rather than a Lambda layer. Ensure your functions vendor the latest `github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-go` release when enabling AAP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog Go tracer is distributed as a Go module rather than a Lambda layer. Ensure your functions vendor the latest `github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-go` release when enabling App and API Protection.
```

## Supported trigger types
Threat Detection supports HTTP requests as function input only, as that channel has the highest likelihood of attackers exploiting a serverless application. HTTP requests typically come from AWS services such as:
- Application Load Balancer (ALB)
- API Gateway v1 (Rest API)
- API Gateway v2 (HTTP API)
- Function URL

<div class="alert alert-info">If you would like to see support added for any of the unsupported capabilities, fill out this <a href="https://forms.gle/gHrxGQMEnAobukfn7">form</a> to send feedback.</div>

## Get started

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Serverless Framework" %}}

> The [Datadog Serverless Framework plugin][2] can be used to automatically configure and deploy your lambda with AAP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Datadog Serverless Framework plugin][2] can be used to automatically configure and deploy your lambda with App and API Protection.
```

To install and configure the Datadog Serverless Framework plugin:

1. Install the Datadog Serverless Framework plugin:
   ```sh
   serverless plugin install --name serverless-plugin-datadog
   ```

> 2. Enable AAP by updating your `serverless.yml` with the `enableASM` configuration parameter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Enable App and API Protection by updating your `serverless.yml` with the `enableASM` configuration parameter:
```

   ```yaml
   custom:
     datadog:
       enableASM: true
   ```

   Overall, your new `serverless.yml` file should contain at least:
   ```yaml
   custom:
     datadog:
       apiKeySecretArn: "{Datadog_API_Key_Secret_ARN}" # or apiKey
       enableDDTracing: true
       enableASM: true
   ```
   See also the complete list of [plugin parameters][5] to further configure your lambda settings.

> 4. Redeploy the function and invoke it. After a few minutes, it appears in [AAP views][6].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Redeploy the function and invoke it. After a few minutes, it appears in [App and API Protection views][6].
```

    More information and additional parameters can be found on the [Datadog CDK documentation][9].

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Custom" %}}

1. Update your function code to use the latest Go tracer:
   ```sh
   go get -u github.com/DataDog/datadog-lambda-go
   ```

2. Install the Datadog Lambda Extension by configuring the layers for your Lambda function using the ARN in one of the following formats. Replace `<AWS_REGION>` with a valid AWS region such as `us-east-1`:
   ```sh
   # x86-based Lambda in AWS commercial regions
   arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
   # arm64-based Lambda in AWS commercial regions
   arn:aws:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:464622532012:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
   # x86-based Lambda in AWS GovCloud regions
   arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
   # arm64-based Lambda in AWS GovCloud regions
   arn:aws-us-gov:lambda:<AWS_REGION>:002406178527:layer:Datadog-Extension-ARM:{{< latest-lambda-layer-version layer="extension" >}}
   ```

> 3. Enable AAP by adding the following environment variables on your function deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enable App and API Protection by adding the following environment variables on your function deployment:
```
